OSDOCS-8379: Migrate "Getting Started with Rosa - Granting Admin Rights" (#68682)
openshift/openshift-docs: cloud_experts_tutorials/cloud-experts-getting-started/cloud-experts-getting-started-admin-rights.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="cloud-experts-getting-started-admin-rights"]
= Tutorial: Granting admin rights
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
:context: cloud-experts-getting-started-admin-rights

toc::[]

//rosaworkshop.io content metadata
//Brought into ROSA product docs 2023-11-30

Administration (admin) rights are not automatically granted to users that you add to your cluster. If you want to grant admin-level privileges to certain users, you will need to manually grant them to each user. You can grant admin rights from either the ROSA command line interface (CLI) or the Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager web user interface (UI).

Red Hat offers two types of admin rights:

* `cluster-admin`: `cluster-admin` rights give the admin user full privileges within the cluster.

* `dedicated-admin`: `dedicated-admin` rights allow the admin user to complete most administrative tasks with certain limitations to prevent cluster damage. It is best practice to use `dedicated-admin` when elevated privileges are needed.

> For more information on admin privileges, see the xref:../../rosa_install_access_delete_clusters/rosa-sts-accessing-cluster.adoc#rosa-create-cluster-admins_rosa-sts-accessing-cluster[administering a cluster] documentation.

Reviewer: This may be a comment for the topic overall, but it seems that "rights" and "privileges "are being used interchangeably. Assuming they are the same thing, wonder if we need to stick with one term so as to avoid confusion? Of course I may be overthinking this...

Author: I changes them all to "privileges".

== Using the ROSA CLI

> . Assuming you are the user who created the cluster, run one of the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Assuming you are the user who created the cluster, run one of the following commands to grant admin rights:
```

+
* For `cluster-admin`:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> rosa grant user cluster-admin --user <idp_user_name> --cluster=<cluster-name>

Reviewer 2: Prepend a `$`

----
+
* For `dedicated-admin`:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> rosa grant user dedicated-admin --user <idp_user_name> --cluster=<cluster-name>

Reviewer 2: Prepend a `$`

----

> . Verify that the admin rights were added by running one of the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that the admin rights were added by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> rosa list users --cluster=<cluster-name>

Reviewer 2: Prepend a `$`

----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa list users --cluster=my-rosa-cluster
ID                 GROUPS
<idp_user_name>    cluster-admins
----

> . If you are currently logged into the Red Hat console, log out of the console and log back in to the cluster to see a new perspective with the “Administrator Panel”. You might need an incognito or private window.

Reviewer 2: Stylized quotes

+
image:cloud-experts-getting-started-admin-rights-admin-panel.png[]

. You can also test that admin privileges were added to your account by running the following command. Only a `cluster-admin` users can run this command without errors.
+
[source,terminal]
----

> oc get all -n openshift-apiserver

Reviewer 2: Add the `$`

* `dedicated-admin`: `dedicated-admin` rights allow the admin user to complete most administrative tasks with certain limitations to prevent cluster damage. It is best practice to use `dedicated-admin` when elevated privileges are needed.

For more information on admin privileges, see the xref:../../rosa_install_access_delete_clusters/rosa-sts-accessing-cluster.adoc#rosa-create-cluster-admins_rosa-sts-accessing-cluster[administering a cluster] documentation.

== Using the ROSA CLI

. Assuming you are the user who created the cluster, run one of the following commands:
+
* For `cluster-admin`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
rosa grant user cluster-admin --user <idp_user_name> --cluster=<cluster-name>
----
+
* For `dedicated-admin`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
rosa grant user dedicated-admin --user <idp_user_name> --cluster=<cluster-name>
----

. Verify that the admin rights were added by running one of the following commands:
+
* For `cluster-admin`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
rosa list users --cluster=<cluster-name>
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa list users --cluster=my-rosa-cluster
ID           GROUPS

> rosa-user    cluster-admins

Reviewer 3: It's better to use <idp_user_name> variable, same with the one in `rosa grant user....` example, rather than "rosa-user" here.

----
+
* For `dedicated-admin`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
oc get groups dedicated-admins
----

> 

Reviewer 3: The examples to verify the cluster-admin and dedicated-admin should be almost same, 
- For verification via rosacli, `rosa list users....` will show cluster-admin user and dedicated-admin user
- `oc get groups...` can verify the users added to the correct group on cluster.
